I wanna cover two questions that came up.
The first of which is around the strategy
of actually tracking the increment amount.
So as we can see here what we're
doing right now is using Vue to track
the increment amount using
this v-model directive.
So down here we can see inside of this
reactive data we have it tracked in here.
And the question is,
why do we even do this?
Which is actually a good question,
because theoretically, if we go ahead and
comment this out.
And we go up here and
we don't even attach any Vue powers
to this particular input element.
Technically the text element
knows what it's doing, right?
I should have chose a smaller number,
it's fine.
It knows that it has 123 inside already.
Why are we using Vue to also check it?
So in other words,
especially before sort of reactive
frameworks became really a big thing.
A common strategy for this was that every
time you wanted to increment the count.
We would basically go and check the DOM to
see what the source of truth is, right?
And so a completely valid approach and
one that we use for many,
many years in Web development.
But as websites and
applications have gotten more complex,
the problem is that if,
we were to have some method.
Again, call it checkInputForValue
that's being run right here.
Again, this is pseudocode, just in case
anyone's afraid they missed anything.
The reason this ends up becoming a problem
is because there ends up being kind of
an inefficient performance bottleneck.
In the sense that now every time
someone's running this increment count,
they're going to check the DOM.
Regardless of the fact that
nothing has actually changed.
And so that's what a lot of
reactivity system has provided for
us from a developer
experience convenience.
And also abstracting some of those
performance concerns away is because
again, for this particular example.
The performance difference is
probably negligible, to be honest,
to just check an input element real quick.
If it's a number,
pass it back and then run it.
But we can envision when you have
complex data visualizations,
when you have a lot of things
working with each other.
If you have to check the DOM every single
time for every single element that has
that source of truth,
you're gonna end up with some conflict.
And then it'll probably be slower because
once again if those things haven't
changed there's no reason to
even check that to begin with.
So, as a result of that, this is why in
some of the more modern frameworks we have
the ability to cache things and
have these reactivity tracking.
And that's where the advantage of actually
making sure that the tracks that reactive
data makes our lives a lot easier.
So great question again for that one.
Okay, so let's go and reset this part real
quick, so we don't ruin the code 123.
And then we had the v-model here.
IncrementAmount, let me save that,
make sure this works.
This does great, okay.
In addition, there was a second question
here in regards to what happens when you
actually want to pass
an argument to the method.
So in this particular case, what if,
for example, an IncrementCount,
we wanted to pass it our own variables,
and in this case let's say 10.
And then for whatever reason,
again, we're spitballing here.
An increment count we're gonna check
if the argument is greater than what's
inside of this, that increment amount.
Then we'll basically use the argument
instead of the reactive variable.
Again, a little bit convoluted, but
we're kind of going on the fly here.
So in increment count,
I mentioned before that typically when
something's being run,
it's by default pass an event object.
So once again, to show that this works,
let me just go ahead and
log(event) real quick and
then remove the argument.
Save, refresh, Console, you can see
the pointer event is being registered.
However, if I add that 10 here,
refresh, you'll see 10 is being passed.
And that's because what
Vue does is it goes, okay,
at this point I don't know how many
arguments you're going to pass.
Cuz you could pass a bunch of
different ones if you wanted to.
And so rather than sort of force you to
remember that the event object is there.
The default event object that's being
passed to you basically gets pushed
to the end.
So if we still wanted to access the event
object in this regard, we would say for
example, now this is not actually event,
it's newAmount.
And then we also have the event object
that's being attached at the end.
So once again, just to make sure that
this actually works as intended.
So when it comes to how have
you handled that default event.
Because it cannot predict where
the default event needs to be
brought in basically,
you explicitly define it.
So you can see here $event that passes the
standard JavaScript event to the function.
And that way in case you have any sort
of funky things going on, it's very,
very clear what you're looking for.
The other thing I wanted to show with
this as well in the docs is that, again,
I'm not a huge fan of inline events.
But I just want you to know it is
possible, you can inline the event
directly there and
just actually run the thing if you want.
But generally speaking, I find that it's a
lot cleaner to just have the method there.
Because again, HTML is in my
mind to be readable for users.
And then the logic and
all that stuff we should abstract that
away as much as humanly possible.
Because what it does is it
lowers the barrier of entry for
those who might want to come and
contribute.
Particularly if you have designers on your
team who are have frontend abilities, but
night might not be that
comfortable JavaScript.
By abstracting that stuff away,
it just makes the code a lot
more approachable for them.
So the $event is the answer for that.
So just to show that inside of the code
actually, so that we have consistency.
Here again, this is the event but
it is not passed by default.
We need to go inside of here and
we need to say $event.
Now, when we increment, there we go.
We have our pointer and
we have our account.
All right, question?
>> So what's the difference between
the @click and the v-on:click.
@click is that just an HTML5 attribute,
right?
>> Okay, good question, no,
it actually segues really well.
So something you'll notice here is that
right now we're doing this v-on and
v-bind.
Where is my v-bind,
v-bind is gone in this particular case.
Okay, that's fine, we interact with
elements a lot as far as interactivity and
events.
So rather than forcing you to type v-on
all the time, there is a shorthand,
which is the @ symbol.
And so if you shortcut that,
that'll basically do exactly what
you expect in terms of the v-on.
But otherwise it's a syntactic sugar
to basically say you don't have to type
those 12345 characters anymore.
Just do @, which honestly, I think is a
fairly intuitive shortcut when it comes to
saying yes @click do this thing @keyup,
do this thing, etc.
And so I mentioned v-bind and just for
the sake of showing that one,
I'll just do a data attribute
called increment-by.
Cuz sometimes you're rendering
stuff to the server or
some other app needs something here.
And let's say you wanna render
incrementAmount to this p element.
And so if you look at this p element
right here, did I do the wrong one?
I didn't refresh, that's why.
Boom, okay,
you see that the attribute data
increment-by is there available for you.
But once again, we need it to be bound and
I said before that you could do v-bind.
And that will go ahead and
change that to actually say, yes,
the increment-by we're looking at is 8.
But again, dynamically binding attributes,
very, very common.
So what can you do instead,
you can just delete v-bind and
just prefix your attribute
with the : another shorthand.
Right or wrong way,
there's no right or wrong way.
Most people end up eventually
getting used to the convention.
So you see that a lot in code bases but
otherwise it's up to you on how
you want to write your total.